# hw01 - DevOps
Development Operations (DevOps) is a branch of software engineering that handles managing resources (such as servers), data, code, builds, networking, and infrastructure with code. The creation of devops and the devops engineer came out of the pain of system administrators of web services. Previous to devops, system administrators would all have their own custom scripts to apply updates, build code, manage virtual machines, etc. It was a wild west with little standardization and extremely low replicability. Slowly out of the pain, devops was created. The big idea of devops is using code to define infrastructure. It facilitates efficient and painless collaboration between developers.

Now, it many not seem like DevOps has much to do with ic design, but this is *open source* ic design. The designs, the tools, the pdk are a collaborative effort and so good devops is necessary to make the work as painless as possible. 

There are two main areas that are needed for our purposes: version control and virtualization for consistent tool performance. We will be using git for version control and docker for consistent tool performance. 

The following assignment is split into two parts: Single Submission and Multiple Submission. The first section may only be submitted once; these are simple and basic questions. The second section may be submitted as many times as needed. 

# Single Submission - Due XXXX

## Q1 - Git Basics
- Fork the repository
- Create a new branch from the master named `firstname-last-name-haiku` (incerting your first and last names).
- Checkout the new branch.
- Create a file in the `haiku` directory named `firstname_lastname.md` (inserting your first and last names) and write a haiku inside. 
- Add the new file
- Commit the changes
- Merge the new branch into the master
- Create a pull request to the main repository (the one you forked).


## Q2 - Merge Conflict 
- Fork all branches of the repository
- Merge branch `new-feature` into `master`. You will have to resolve the errors. Choose the changes in the `new-feature` branch.
- Create a pull request to the main repository from your `master` to the main repository `master`.

## Q3 - Docker Basics
Run the container found here [https://hub.docker.com/r/mtseng15/hw01-q3](https://hub.docker.com/r/mtseng15/hw01-q3) and find the secret message. Enter the secret mesage into canvas.
!! Do I redo this so that it copies the data to a volume location and attempts to source from a volume? i.e., it forces people to mount a volume to execute?
!! Do I embed the secret message in an image? So that they are forced to run the container and port it?


!! UNFINISHED BELOW!!
# Multiple Submissions - Due XXXX

## Q4 - Git Reset
- Revert the changes

## Q5 - Docker Image Build Part 1
Build a docker container (i.e, write a `Dockerfile`) to the following specifications:
- Fork the [hw01-q5](https://github.com/UAH-IC-Design-Team/hw01-q5) repository. A	`Dockerfile` with a required line has been started for you.
- Based on Alpine 3.17
- Fetches (i.e., `git clone`) the latest commit and builds the application [hw01-q5-application](https://github.com/UAH-IC-Design-Team/hw01-q5-application) with the command `make`.
- Must include the line `RUN git clone https://github.com/UAH-IC-Design-Team/hw01-q5-application.git` 
- Final image must be less than `10MB` in size. 
- Command executes the `hw01-q5-application`
- The commandline output should be
    ```
		hello everyone
    this is the hw01-q5-application
    press CTL-C to exit
		```
- Submit a pull request to [hw01-q5]()https://github.com/UAH-IC-Design-Team/hw01-q5 with your solution.


## Q6 - Docker Red Team
- 

# External Resources
Depending on your experience with Linux, Bash, Git and Docker you may need some external help. There are hundreds of tutorials and videos on the internet. Here are a few to get started:
- [Git and Github for Poets](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BCQHnlnPusY&list=PLRqwX-V7Uu6ZF9C0YMKuns9sLDzK6zoiV)
- [Git - Book](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)
- [Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/)


